[AUDIO LOGO]
[THEME MUSIC]
>>EMERY SMITH: Today
on Cosmic Disclosure,
we're with Richard Doty, a
retired Special Agent who
served in the Air Force Office
of Special Investigations.
Richard was intimately
involved with UFO,
ET-related intelligence.
Today, we are discussing
the Echo 3 incident.
Richard, welcome to the show.
>>RICHARD DOTY:
Thank you, Emery.
Good to be here.
>>EMERY: Could you tell
us a little bit more
about the Echo 3 incident
and what happened?
>>DOTY: Let's go back to what
an ICBM launch facility is, OK?
From the '60s on
until present day,
the United States Air Force has
established Minuteman launch
silos around the western
part of the United States.
There's 150 missiles at various
places around Wyoming, Nebraska,
and Colorado.
They're centered out
of FE Warren Air Force
Base near Cheyenne, Wyoming.
This incident involves a ICBM
launch site called Echo 3
in Nebraska.
On November 14,
1976, an incident
happened at that
facility, Echo 3.
First of all, every 10 missiles
has a launch control facility
that controls those 10 missiles.
And at the launch
control facility,
there is launch control
officers that control those.
They're 60 feet underground.
On the top part of the
launch control facility
are the Air Force
security police forces
and the other administrative
people that control and monitor
the launch control facility.
For every missile site, there's
security police personnel
that can respond, and they're
called a SAT team, or Security
Alert Teams.
There's also a backup
team called a QRT,
or Quick Response Team.
So if there's something
happens at one of these sites,
these Air Force security
policemen respond.
Now, these missile
sites are far away
from launch control facilities.
They can be between 15 minutes
up to an hour response time.
And to prevent anybody
or any entities
from getting inside these
sites by breaking into them,
there's two different hatches--
an A hatch and a B hatch.
The A hatch, Air Force
security policeman can open.
The B hatch, only missile
personnel can open it.
But each site, it
takes a certain amount
of time, the response
time, to open that hatch.
So if an alarm goes
off at those sites,
it can take the
security policemen
maybe 30 minutes or 45
minutes to get there.
This particular site, Echo 3--
from the launch
control facility,
the Echo 3 site was a
30-minute response time.
So anybody trying to open that,
it takes 30 minutes to open that
hatch normally.
On this particular occasion,
an outer zone alarm activated.
An outer zone alarm is on the
perimeter fence of these sites.
There's a chain link fence,
and there's zone alarms.
There's outer zone 1, 2, 3, and
4, the four sides of the site.
So the launch
control facilities,
the missile control
officer down underground
sees that a light
goes off at Echo 3,
meaning that something
penetrated the outer zone
of that missile site.
Now, within a few minutes, the
inner zone alarm activated.
>>EMERY: A few minutes.
>>DOTY: Now, that's
bad because now you
have access to the missile.
And that should never
happen because it
should have taken
at least an hour
for anyone authorized, the
missile control or anybody else,
to open up that second hatch.
So now they know
there's a problem,
and they dispatched the
security alert team.
>>EMERY: Tell me the procedural
aspects of what happened next.
>>DOTY: The security alert
team, meaning two highly trained
Air Force security policemen
armed with a handgun, .38
revolver, and an
M16 rifle, respond
from the control facility.
It takes them 24 minutes
to get to the site, Echo 3.
But in the meantime, the
launch control facility
received a call
from Kimball County,
which is where the
missile site is located,
that there's a plane
crash south of I-80.
And this missile site was
about 3 miles south of I-80,
going through Nebraska,
western part of Nebraska.
And that the dispatch, the
Kimball County Sheriff's
was dispatching a state
trooper and a sheriff's deputy.
So now we think that the launch
control facility realizes
that maybe a plane had crashed
into it, because that's
what the sheriff's department
dispatcher told launch control
facility.
We had a plane crash.
So as the security policeman
are going out there,
they were told there's
probably a plane that
crashed into Echo 3.
So when the Air Force security
police arrive, like I said,
24 minutes later, they see
this huge saucer-shaped object
inside the missile site.
And that presented a lot
of problems for them.
Also arriving at scene was
a Nebraska State trooper
and a Kimball County
Sheriff's deputy.
And so that these
people arrived.
Plus, a short time later,
a couple fire trucks
come from Kimball
County because they're
responding to an aircraft
crash, they thought.
But when they get there,
they don't find an aircraft.
Well, they find the
aircraft, but it's a UFO.
>>EMERY: Rick, how would you
explain a UFO crashing directly
into that missile silo?
>>DOTY: Well, that's a
good question, Emery.
How, you know--
>>EMERY: And what's the chances?
Come on.
>>DOTY: How advanced
these crafts are--
this is 1976.
And we know some about
UFOs because we have them.
We've had crash sites before.
But how do they crash
into a missile site?
And this is a large, about
a 50-foot in diameter craft.
>>EMERY: Is it mangled up?
Is it cracked open?
I mean, you're certain
that it crashed, obviously,
for what reason.
How do you know this?
>>DOTY: There's
damage to the front--
well, part of the saucer.
And there's certainly damage
to the hatches leading down
into the missile.
And part of it
was sitting on top
of the blast door, which
were the missiles contained
on top of the missile.
And so now the security
policemen have a dilemma.
What do they do next?
Well, they immediately
call for assistance
and get somebody out here,
get a supervisor out here,
get a QRT out here.
We don't know what's going on.
But during this
time period, they
look at the front of the gate.
Now, they're away
from the gate somehow.
They see these
extraterrestrials,
these 4 and 1/2 foot tall,
gray-colored entities,
signaled to them, waving their
arms at the security policemen.
Now, the security
policemen think,
why are they waving their arms?
Is there a danger?
Are they trying to get out?
I mean, their
craft just crashed,
so maybe they're telling
us it's going to explode.
So one of the senior security
policemen at the scene told
the fire department, and the
civilian law enforcement backed
away 2,000 feet.
That's standard for a Broken
Arrow in the United States Air
Force.
So they moved back 2,000 feet.
>>EMERY: That's far.
>>DOTY: The security police
radioed what they had,
and that he needed
help out there.
So the QRT, which consists of a
14-men Air Force Security police
with heavy weapons--
they have machine guns and
rocket-propelled grenades
and all sorts of things--
they respond, but it took
them a long time to get there.
When they get there, by
the time they got there,
these two extraterrestrials
had climbed over the fence
and came up to the
security policeman vehicle.
And they start trying
to communicate.
But the security
policeman couldn't
understand their
mechanical-sounding voice,
beepings, and tones.
But the security
policemen kind of
figured out that these
two entities, aliens, were
trying to tell them something.
So they noticed that one of them
had a mark from the hand, which
only had four fingers, up
the left arm all the way
to the top of the shoulder.
And so he realized
this one was hurt,
but they didn't know what to do.
Do we give him first aid
like we would normally
give him first aid?
So this one was injured.
Now, are there
others inside there?
Is this alien trying to
tell the security policemen,
my friends are still inside,
my comrades are inside,
we need help?
There was no communications.
So what did they do next?
The launch control facility
contacted FE Warren command post
and said, we got an
extraterrestrial craft that
crashed into an LCF at Echo 3.
Now, what do we do now?
They immediately dispatched an
SDART, a Special Downed Aircraft
Recovery Team, from
Kirtland Air Force Base.
Now, it's going
to take a while--
>>EMERY: Here we come.
>>DOTY: --for them to respond
from Kirtland to Nebraska,
but they did.
They responded.
Took them 16 hours to respond.
In the meantime, OSI shows up.
About 4 and 1/2 hours later,
two OSI agents show up.
And the two
extraterrestrials are still
at the security
policemen vehicle.
By that time, the
security policemen
have the site surrounded.
And these two extraterrestrials
are still trying to communicate.
They never stopped
talking or making sounds.
So the security
policemen realize
there's something in danger.
An Air Force major shows up.
He takes over
command of the site.
He's the incident
commander, so to speak.
He's trying to
communicate with--
drawing on papers,
drawing things
and showing them drawings.
They still weren't
communicating.
>>EMERY: Wow.
>>DOTY: Eventually,
two OSI agents show up.
>>EMERY: There we go.
>>DOTY: A male and a female.
And they went up.
And the female then started
a communication process.
She started trying to
put her mind inside
of the extraterrestrial's.
They moved away from the
vehicles and other people,
and they were alone
in a little gully
just off the road from the site.
And although there wasn't
any sound appearing,
there was some kind of
communications going on.
And she came back
up and said, there's
four other extraterrestrials
in that craft,
and they're all injured.
We need to go in
and get them out.
>>EMERY: Wow.
>>DOTY: And that's what
he was trying to explain.
>>EMERY: He was trying
to say, hey, help.
>>DOTY: So when the DART team
got there, they went inside.
They opened the site up.
The extraterrestrial
went up and showed them
how to open the hatch.
The hatch opened.
They went inside the
hatch, the SDART team,
because they had hazmat suits.
They're the only ones that can
do this and got these others.
Unfortunately, they were dead.
The other four were dead.
Two of them were still alive.
They climbed over the fence,
but the other four were dead.
They brought them
out, the bodies out.
And now what are
they going to do
with that craft inside that
launch control facility?
That's--
>>EMERY: A large craft, too.
>>DOTY: Yeah.
You imagine it's going to
take a lot of equipment.
And what are you going to
tell the civilian community?
Although it's a
pretty isolated area,
although there's a farmhouse
about a mile and a half away,
what do you tell that farmer?
What do you tell the firemen,
the state trooper, the sheriff's
deputy, the
ambulance attendants,
because they sent an ambulance?
What do you tell them.
Well, then--
>>EMERY: That's
what you guys do.
>>DOTY: That's what OSI does.
They came up and said, listen,
this is an Air Force craft.
It's experimental.
It was flying out
of Offutt Air Force
base, which is also in Nebraska.
It was SAC Headquarters
back in those days in 1976,
and it crashed.
And these were all
people in suits
because the sheriff's deputy
and the trooper saw these--
>>EMERY: Yeah, I mean, how
are they going to fake that?
>>DOTY: So now they have to
perform a major disinformation
program to try to convince them.
Now, I don't know that the
farmer ever came out there,
or there was any
indication in the report
that a farmer came out there.
But there were
five or six firemen
and ambulance attendants.
And so that's the
story that was put out.
Now, whether they
believed it or not--
but what they did was
they moved everybody away.
They said, hey, we
don't need you anymore.
Get away.
All Air Force equipment came up.
And eventually, they created
a national defense zone,
which means that
these whole area is
under the control of the
National Defense authority.
And Air Force brought in
all their own equipment.
>>EMERY: You said
they make sounds.
They look like small Greys.
Are these the EBENs
or something else?
>>DOTY: No, these
were the EBENs.
>>EMERY: These were the EBENs.
>>DOTY: These were the EBENs.
I think that was the consensus
of the final report that
was done by the SDART
and the OSI agents.
Other OSI agents came
to the scene after that.
And the experts arrived.
And they were almost
convinced that this craft
was being flown by the
extraterrestrial biological
entities, that the same group
of extraterrestrials that
were involved in the Roswell
crash and other crashes--
>>EMERY: Did we shoot them down?
Why did they crash?
>>DOTY: That's a good question.
It appears that there was
some sort of a disruption
in the craft's guidance system.
But again, we're dealing
with different technologies.
But remember, by 1976,
we had thoroughly
examined the 1947 craft.
This is some almost
30 years later,
so we are pretty sure that we
know something about the EBEN
craft, but except that this is
the largest EBEN craft we ever
had encountered, this one,
that had landed or crashed.
The '47 crash wasn't
as big as this one.
So now how do we figure
out what happened?
Well, the biggest problem is
getting that thing from there
to Area 51.
Because in '76, Area 51 was--
>>EMERY: How did
they transport that?
>>DOTY: Yeah, that's
the good question.
>>EMERY: On a truck
at night or what?
>>DOTY: They did it
entirely at night,
between 1:00 and
6:00 in the morning.
They planted a route that
would go by places where they
could hide it in the daytime.
Now, you imagine the
difficulty of doing that.
But because you got I-80,
that goes to populated areas,
I'm sure along the way, they had
to do a lot of disinformation,
because they had to get
probably highway patrol or state
police involved in the
escort of this thing.
I don't know what they
were telling them.
It looks like a flying saucer.
If it looks like
a flying saucer,
there's probably
a flying saucer.
I don't know how they could
hide that, but they did.
And they got it down to Area 51
in the latter part of December.
So it took them from--
November 14, 1976, when it
crashed and almost New Year's.
I think it was 27
or 28 of December.
They finally get it to Tonopah
testing and training range.
And that's when they were
able to fully examine it.
And based on what we learned
from the Roswell crash
in 1947, because it was the
same craft, same technologies,
we put together what
we knew and the fact
that we had two
extraterrestrials that
later became guests of
ours at the S2 annex.
And I guess, although I
don't know personally,
I can't state for sure that
they probably helped us
in explaining what
happened to the craft
and how their avionics or
guidance system failed them.
Because if they
come from wherever
their base of that, all
this great distance and they
can't navigate, but
they crash, there
has to be some major problems
with their technology or maybe
something we caused, because
in 1976, we still had radar.
We had actually advanced
radar systems in 1976.
We were experimenting with
over-the-horizon radar and some
of these other highly
sophisticated radar systems
that maybe disrupted
their guidance system.
>>EMERY: Real quick, isn't
there a picture of that?
There's a couple pictures
out there floating around
with that on the flatbed.
>>DOTY: There are.
>>EMERY: Is that real?
>>DOTY: Yeah, there was one--
>>EMERY: I mean,
they're old pictures.
>>DOTY: Yeah,
there's one picture,
that was taken in Wyoming
that had an Atomic Energy
Commission marking on it.
We didn't have a Department
of Energy then in 1976.
We had the Atomic
Energy Commission.
So anytime we moved any
kind of nuclear material
during that time period, it
was under the Atomic Energy
Act of 1954.
And so there were
signs on this movement
showing the Atomic Energy
Commission equipment.
So I think that's one of the
stories they told people.
This is Atomic Energy.
This is maybe a nuclear
reactor or something.
I don't know for sure.
But I would guess that
that's what probably what
they were telling them.
>>EMERY: Yes.
Do you think there's
Atomic Energy
symbols that were on the craft?
Do you think they
were covering up
any other symbols that were
extraterrestrial on the craft?
>>DOTY: I'm pretty
sure there were
the same symbols on the
outer skin of that craft
that we found on the 1947
Corona crash of the EBEN craft.
But there was a tarp over this.
And the Atomic Energy signs were
on the outer side of the tarp.
So a passerby would only see
these Atomic Energy Commission
warnings of radiation, stay
away, whatever they said.
>>EMERY: So with the two
survivors, they have this craft.
They have their four
colleagues that are dead.
What kind of arrangement did
they make to stay here at S-4
or to do what?
>>DOTY: The female OSI
agent was negotiating this.
She was communicating
telepathically
with the one extraterrestrial.
And she was explaining
what they would have to do.
I don't know how much she
told them that what this was,
the missile site.
Back then, they had MIRVs,
reentry vehicle platform with
three 170-kiloton
yield nuclear warheads.
But I think they
probably knew that.
And therefore, she
explained to them,
your craft has to
be moved someplace,
and we have to take it to a
place that we can examine it.
You can't fly it.
There's no other choice for
you but to cooperate with us.
And we'll take you
to a safe facility.
We'll do whatever we
can medically for you.
And we'll take your comrades to
a facility, which I'm not sure
where they went.
And the OSI agents
that I talked to,
the four dead extraterrestrials
were taken by another team
to another location.
And they believed it was
Wright-Patterson Air Force Base.
But that is a question
that I always had,
but I could never get answered.
The two live
extraterrestrials, they
were flown to S-2 annex, which
was really the only facilities
that we could keep them out
during that time period.
And the female OSI agent
negotiated this with them.
And she was able to make them
understand that there wasn't
any other option as well.
What are we going to
do with the craft?
We can't leave it there.
We got a missile down there.
And so they had to move it.
And--
>>EMERY: So they seem
pretty cordial about it
that we were trying to help?
And was there any
animosity there?
>>DOTY: I think the
fact that the EBENs had
been in communications with
humans for so long a period
of time, that they trusted us.
And that's only my opinion.
It's not--
>>EMERY: They know we're not
going to do crazy to them.
>>DOTY: I think it's just the
fact that we're not hostile
towards them, benevolent towards
them, and they are towards us.
And I think they realize that
there wasn't any other choice.
What else were they going to do?
And what they were able to do is
get a medical kit or some kind
of medical supplies out of
the craft, the crashed one,
and they were able
to heal themselves.
They were able to
bring out the equipment
and patch themselves up.
And because we have a unique
relationship with the EBENs--
I believe that
another ship came.
And it was able to
take those two away
and maybe even the bodies.
But I'm pretty sure the
two live extraterrestrial,
the EBENs were taken back.
And I'm not sure
about the bodies.
Again, I was never briefed,
and there wasn't any indication
in any reports that I've read or
the OSI agents that I talked to
about what happened to
those four dead ones.
They went someplace,
probably Wright-Patterson.
And where they went from
there, I don't know.
And I don't whatever
happened to the craft
and whether it's still
out there or not.
But I know that it took
about six months to repair.
The Echo 3 launch
control facility
was offline for about
six months before they
were able to fix the doors
and all the other damage that
was done by that.
>>EMERY: So how was this OSI
agent able to communicate
with the EBENs?
>>DOTY: Well, Emery, we
talked about Katie Smith.
We did a whole episode
on Katie Smith.
That female OSI agent was Katie
Smith, who we know was a hybrid.
She had the unique
ability to communicate
with these extraterrestrials.
No one else was able to do that.
But she had focused
herself and her psyche,
so to speak, on this one
particular extraterrestrial.
And she was able to
mind meld, so to speak,
her mind with that
particular extraterrestrial
in order to communicate.
If it wasn't for
Katie Smith, I don't
know how we would have
been able to communicate.
>>EMERY: Now, we spoke
of extraterrestrials
using telepathy to
communicate, especially
when they approach a human that
doesn't even know telepathy.
And they are able
to, psionically,
with telepathy, talk and
communicate with these people.
Why didn't they use
their capabilities
to speak to the
security officers
or anyone that was there?
>>DOTY: That's a good question.
First of all, the two security
policemen were extremely busy.
They had communications.
They were coordinating
with other law enforcement.
I don't think they had time
enough to sit there or stand
there and direct some kind of
mind system back and forth,
thought process.
And they were probably as
in a very excited state
as the extraterrestrials were.
Maybe there was
something being attempted
by the extraterrestrials,
but it just
wasn't getting to the
security policemen.
>>EMERY: Is there
anything else that you
learned about this
event over the years?
>>DOTY: Yes.
Number one, we had
the unique ability
to communicate with
the extraterrestrials
by a hybrid who was an
OSI agent, Katie Smith.
>>EMERY: Game changer.
>>DOTY: Big game changer.
And we didn't know
at the time, as I've
told Katie Smith's story.
We didn't know at the time
that she was a hybrid.
She knew.
But later on, we determined it.
And she, of course, assisted
us with a number of operations.
But the thing that
we learned was
that we needed
hybrids to communicate
with extraterrestrials.
And fortunately, at
that particular instance
time in 1976, we had one,
and that was Katie Smith.
>>EMERY: Thank you again,
Rick, for being on the show.
>>DOTY: Great to be here.
>>EMERY: I'm Emery Smith, and
this is Cosmic Disclosure.
Until next time.
[THEME MUSIC]